Arthur William Ryder was born on March 8, 1877, in Oberlin, Ohio. His early education was in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and Phillips Academy at Andover. Thence he proceeded in 1894 to Harvard University where he received the degree of A.B. in 1897. After a year as teacher of German and Latin at Andover, Ryder studied at the universities of Jena and Leipzig; at Leipzig, in 1901, he took the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. In 1904 he was appointed Instructor in Sanskrit at Harvard University, and in 1906 President Wheeler appointed him Instructor in Sanskrit at the University of California. Here he remained until his death on March 21, 1938.

During his life at Harvard and the University of California, Arthur Ryder was much engaged in translating works of Sanskrit literature into English. The first of these was The Little Clay Cart, a drama of Shudraka, published by the Harvard Oriental Series in 1905. Following this came the Shakuntala and Meghaduta of Kalidasa, published in the Everyman's Library in 1912; two volumes of verse, Women's Eyes (1910) and Relatives (1919), translated from verses in the Panchatantra, the Hitopadesha, the Mahabharata, and the works of Bhartrihari. His last poetry was a translation of the Bhagavad Gita, which appeared in 1929. Ryder's poetic power was shown not only in these translations but also in excellent original verse, which he did not publish but permitted his friends to read.

His prose is no less distinguished than his verse. His work in that medium is represented by a translation of the Panchatantra (1925) and a selection of excerpts therefrom entitled Gold's Gloom. Beside these there are the prose tales in Twenty-Two Goblins (1917) and the Ten Princes of Dandin. All these translations are marked by a high fidelity to the originals, together with a powerful and excellently lucid English style.

A volume of Ryder's shorter poems and translations, with a biographical sketch by Professor George Rapall Noyes, is soon to be published by the University of California Press. 
